- [Instructor] So let's take a look
at our first GitOps principle
and start to break it down.
The principle states that we should have
a declarative description of the entire system.
Let's start with the system description.
This is what is committed inside your Git repository.
The system description will include one or more files
that will define each system components and its state.
GitOps says how we store those definitions is important
and we need to do it declaratively.
That means our system description
is going to be stored as data.
That's a little abstract
but it's really the key to all this.
When managing infrastructure,
the two major approaches are imperative and declarative.
Let's start with imperative.
It focuses on how we reach a desired state.
To do this, it assumes we execute a sequence of commands
that change our system.
The imperative approach typically involves
a CLI or a GUI console.
The declarative approach taken by GitOps,
flips this model.
Instead of specifying how,
we just specify what we want the system to look like
using a number of declarations
that make up its description.
In the declarative approach,
If we want to change the system,
we update the description.
We do not execute a series of commands.
Here's a trick to keep the two straight.
Think of the imperative approach as a set of instructions
that come with the piece of furniture
that you assemble at home.
It says step-by-step how to put it together.
The declarative approach,
is more like blueprints for a house.
It describes the rooms,
their dimensions,
and features.
It describes what to build not how to build it.
Let's look at both approaches using Kubernetes.
It makes it really easy to highlight the differences.
So here I have a Kubernetes cluster running
and on this cluster, we're going to create a deployment.
We'll first do that imperatively.
So we're going to use kubectl,
we'll create a deployment named imperative deploy.
And this deployment is going
to launch an NGINX container on the cluster.
Okay, so, let's go ahead.
We'll issue that command
and then we can see it running on the cluster.
Now, let's talk about this.
There's no visibility of my work
and we cannot reproduce those commands that I just issued.
Now let's contrast that with the declarative approach.
For this approach,
we have described the Kubernetes objects
in a declarative YAML file named deployment.yaml.
Notice how the file describes
what the system should look like.
You can read this and know the state
of what the system should be.
If I wanted to make a change,
let's say there's a new NGINX image available.
I can go ahead and do that
within the declarative configuration
not by executing a command.
Now, of course the change would need to be applied
on the cluster
and in GitOps, that's done through an agent,
not kubectl.
But the point is, this would be stored in Git
and all my teammates could see the change
that I made to the system.
Declarative configuration is important for GitOps
because it describes the system
in a way that an automated agent can read and act upon.
The declarative description of our system
becomes its desired state,
which leads us to our next principle.